.Dd 1/17/23             \" DATE
.Dt GXSM4 1             \" Program name and manual section number
.Os Debian 11 Bullseye, Ubuntu 22.04 LTS

.Sh NAME                \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm GXSM4
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Nd Gnome X Scanning Microscopy

.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Op Fl option              \" [-abcd]
.\" .Op Fl a Ar path         \" [-a path]
.\" .Op Ar file              \" [file]
-\" .Op Ar                   \" [file ...]
.Ar List of loadable file(s) .nc \" Underlined argument - use .Ar anywhere to underline

.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
is a powerful graphical interface for any kind of 2D and 3D (multilayered 2D 
mode) data acquisition methods, especially designed for SPM and SPA-LEED, which 
are used in surface science. It includes methods for 2D data (of various types: 
byte, short, long, double) visualization and manipulation. We are currently 
using it for STM and all kinds of AFM.
.Pp                      \" Inserts a space
.Nm 
is powerful, it is easy to extend via plug-ins, it is unlimited in data size... 
and it is a free and open source software hosted by SourceForge! It is based on 
the Linux Gtk+/Gnome development environment.
.Pp                      \" Inserts a space
More details on 
.Pp
.Bl -bullet
.It Pa
http://gxsm.sf.net
.It Pa
http://sranger.sf.net
.It Pa 
J. Vac. Sci. Technol. B 28, C4E39 (2010), doi:10.1116/1.3374719
.El
.Pp
.Sh OPTIONS
Help
.Bl -tag -width
.It Fl ?, Fl Fl help
Show help options
.El
.Pp
Application Options
.Bl -tag -width
.It Fl V, Fl Fl version
Show the application's version
.It Fl h, --hardware-card
Hardware Card: no | ... (depends on available HwI plugins)
.It Fl d, Fl Fl Hardware-DSPDev
Hardware DSP Device Path: /dev/sranger_mk23_0 | ... (depends on module type and index if multiple DSPs)
.It Fl u, Fl Fl User-Unit
XYZ Unit: AA | nm | um | mm | BZ | sec | V | 1 
.It Fl  m, Fl Fl load-files-as-movie
load file from command in one channel as movie
.It Fl s, Fl Fl new-instance
Start a new instance of 
.Nm
-- not yet functional, use different user account via ssh -X... for now.
.El
.Pp
Debugging
.Bl -tag -width
.It Fl L, Fl Fl logging-level
Set 
.Nm
logging/monitor level. omit all loggings: 0, minimal logging: 1, default logging: 2, verbose logging: 3, ...
.It Fl Fl disable-plugins
Disable default plugin loading on startup
.It Fl g, Fl Fl disable-geometry-management
Disable Gxsm Window Geometry load/restore on startup
.It Fl Fl force-configure
Force to reconfigure Gxsm on startup
.It Fl Fl force-rebuild-configuration-defaults
Forces to restore all GXSM values to build in defaults at startup
.It Fl Fl write-gxsm-preferences-gschema
Generate Gxsm preferences gschema file on startup with build in defaults and exit
.It Fl Fl write-gxsm-gl-preferences-gschema
Generate Gxsm GL preferences gschema file on startup with build in defaults and exit
.It Fl Fl write-gxsm-pcs-gschema
Generate Gxsm pcs gschema file on startup with build in defaults while execution
.It Fl Fl write-gxsm-pcs-adj-gschema
Generate Gxsm pcs adjustements gschema file on startup with build in defaults while execution
.It Fl Fl D, Fl Fl debug-level=DN
Set Gxsm debug level. 0: no debug output on console, 1: normal, 2: more verbose, ...5 increased verbosity
.It Fl P, Fl Fl pi-debug-level=PDN
Set Gxsm Plug-In debug level. 0: no debug output on console, 1: normal, 2: more verbose, ...5 increased verbosity
.It Fl T, Fl Fl build-self-test-script
Build gxsm4 self test pyremote script.
.El

.Sh HISTORY           \" Document history if command behaves in a unique manner
The project Gxsm was initiated by the main author Percy Zahl, see the
Gxsm Manual and homepage http://gxsm.sf.net for a complete list of
the contributors to the Gxsm project.

Read the online 
.Nm
manual at http://gxsm.sf.net.
This manual page was written by
.Pp
.Bl -bullet
.It Pa 
Percy Zahl <zahl@users.sf.net>
.It Pa 
Stefan Schroeder <stefan_fkp@users.sf.net> (Update for Gxsm3)
.It Pa 
Thorsten WAgner <stm@users.sf.net> (Update for Gxsm4)
.El
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).

.Sh BUGS
See the Tracker/Bugs at http://sourceforge.net/projects/gxsm/

.Sh COPYING
Copyright 1997 - 2023 Percy Zahl, Andreas Klust, Thorsten Wagner
.Pp
This is free software (GPL); see the source for copying conditions.  There
is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

.Sh SEE ALSO
.\" List links in ascending order by section, alphabetically within a section.
.\" Please do not reference files that do not exist without filing a bug report
.Xr gmetopng 1 ,
.Xr nctopng 1 ,
.Xr rhkspm32topng 1 ,
.Xr scalatopng 1 ,
.Xr vpdata2ascii 1
