.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH GXSM 2 "February 22, 2002"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
gxsm \- Gnome X Scanning Microscopy (gxsm3 3.3.0)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gxsm3
.RI [ options ] " files" ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
gxsm3 \- Software for multi-channel 2D/3D data acquisition and
visualization: Especially designed for surface analysis techniques as
SPM (STM/AFM), SPA-LEED, SARLS and more (CCD). Plug-in
extendable 2D data (byte, short, int, double) analysis tools are included.
.TP
Gxsm3 accepts the GTK+ and GNOME standard options and:
.P
.B Help options
.TP
.B \-?, \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-\-usage
Display brief usage message.
.P
.B \-h, \-\-Hardware-Card=default
Hardware Card: no | spm | spa | ccd
.TP
.B -u, --User-Unit=default
XYZ Unit: AA | nm | um | mm | BZ | sec | V | 1 
.TP
.B --disable-plugins
disable default plugin loading on startup
.TP
.B --force-configure
force to reconfigure Gxsm on startup
.TP
.B --force-rebuild-gconf-defaults
Forces to restore all GXSM gconf defaults on startup
.TP
.B  --debug-level=INT
Set Gxsm debug level. 0: no debug
output on console, 1: normal, 2: more
verbose, ...5 increased verbosity
.TP
.B  --pi-debug-level=INT
Set Gxsm-PlugIn debug level. 0: no debug output on console, 1: normal,
2: more verbose, ..., 5 increased verbosity
.P
.\" SH "SEE ALSO"
.\" BR goszi(1), loadpci(1), lcd(1), dsp_applet(1)
.br
Read the online gxsm manual at http://gxsm.sf.net.
This manual page was written by Percy Zahl <zahl@users.sf.net>,
and updated for gxsm3 by Stefan Schroeder <stefan_fkp@users.sf.net>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
.SH BUGS and BUGREPORTING
See the Tracker/Bugs at http://sourceforge.net/projects/gxsm/
.SH COPYING
Copyright
.if t \(co 1997 - 2006 Percy Zahl, Andreas Klust
.PP
This is free software (GPL); see the source for copying conditions.  There
is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH AUTHORS
The project Gxsm was initiated by the main author Percy Zahl, see the
Gxsm Manual and homepage http://gxsm.sf.net for a complete list of
the contributors to the Gxsm project.
